 the role of aldosterone and vasopressin in the postural changes in renal excretion in normal subjects and patients with idiopathic edema the effects of the upright posture (leisurely walking for 2 hours) on halfhourly urine volume, and excretion of sodium and creatinine were studied in 13 normal subjects and 13 patients with idiopathic edema, while they drank 150 or 300 ml. of 0.14 per cent sodium chloride solution every half hour.  when the 2 hours of walking were compared with a preceding recumbent period of 4 hours, both groups were found to show a significant antidiuresis upright.  the administration of ethanol during the last half hour of recumbency abolished the fall in urine flow and in free water clearance during the first hour of walking in the normal subjects and significantly reduced this fall in the patients with edema.  sodium excretion in the normal subjects was slightly but not significantly lower when upright than when recumbent, but in the edematous patients was significantly lower when upright and fell progressively over the 2 hour period.  administration of spironolactone or damphetamine increased sodium excretion during recumbency in both groups but increased sodium excretion upright only in the edematous patients to equal that of the normal subjects.  creatinine excretion was not changed in either group by posture or drug therapy.  similar studies were performed on 5 patients with untreated diabetes insipidus and on 6 patients with adrenal insufficiency treated with hydrocortisone alone.  lack of aldosterone (in adrenal insufficiency) did not increase the amount of sodium excreted above that of normal subjects in recumbency and did not prevent the occurrence of significant sodium retention in the upright posture.  however, lack of adh (in diabetes insipidus) delayed the antidiuresis upright for 30 minutes. the results indicate that adh release is probably responsible for the reduction in urine volume during the first 30 minutes after assuming the upright posture, but not thereafter.  the excessive magnitude of the orthostatic antidiuresis in idiopathic edema probably results from a cause other than adh release, since it is not completely overcome by ethanol. reduced na excretion during 2 hours in the upright posture can occur in the absence of circulating aldosterone, but the abnormal magnitude of the na retention in the patients with idiopathic edema probably results from hyperaldosteronism. 