 3716. glycolytic control mechanisms. i. inhibition of glycolysis by acetate and pyruvate in the isolated, perfused rat heart acetate or pyruvate had similar effects on the over-all metabolism of glucose.  glycolytic flux was decreased in both the presence and absence of insulin, glucose oxidation was greatly decreased, and the conversion of glucose to glycogen and lactate was promoted.  glucose phosphorylation was decreased in the presence but not in the absence of insulin.  hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase, and pyruvic kinase are far displaced from equilibrium, while the other enzymic steps of glycolysis are maintained either at equilibrium or fairly close to equilibrium.  in different metabolic situations, glycolytic flux may be affected by those steps which are far displaced from equilibrium.  increased levels of the hexose monophosphates, and decreased levels of the other glycolytic intermediates between fructose 1,6-diphosphate and pyruvate after the addition of 10 mm acetate indicate that glycolytic flux was decreased by inhibition of phosphofructokinase.  after the addition of 10 mm pyruvate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, and triosephosphate accumulated as a result of an inhibition of either glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase or phosphoglyceric kinase. acetate had little effect on the total content of oxidized or reduced di- or triphosphopyridine nucleotides, but slightly decreased the ratio of nad to nadh2 in the cytoplasm, as estimated from the ratios of lactate to pyruvate and a-glycerophosphate to dihydroxyacetone phosphate.  pyruvate increased the total content of nadh2 and nadph2 as shown both by an increase of fluorescence in the intact heart, and by tissue analyses, but the ratio of nad to nadii2 in the cytoplasm was greatly increased.  these results demonstrate compartmentation of pyridine nucleotides between cytoplasm and mitochondria in the intact cell.  after the addition of acetate, citrate was the only intermediate of the citric acid cycle which increased greatly in amount, while oxaloacetate levels decreased.  after the addition of pyruvate, the levels of citrate, a-ketoglutarate, malate, and oxaloacetate were all greatly elevated.  the glutamic-oxaloacetate transaminase reaction as measured from the total contents of the reactants in the tissue remained close to equilibrium.  changes in the concentrations of the adenine nucleotides were insufficient to account for the inhibition of phosphofructokinase, but the results are consistent with control at this step being mediated by citrate. 