 3105. studies on the subunits of a-crystallin and their recombination earlier investigations have shown that, in the presence of high concentrations of urea, a-crystallin from bovine lens is split into a number of subunits with apparently different electrophoretic mobilities but similar molecular weights.  the recombination of these subunits after removal of the urea has been studied by ultracentrifugation and immunoprecipitation techniques. it was found that maximal recombination was obtained when the ionic strength during the removal of the urea was high (>0.2), whereas at low ionic strengths a molecule with only half the molecular weight of native a-crystallin and a much lower sedimentation coefficient was obtained.  a complete recovery of the structure of native a-crystallin was never obtained, even at high ionic strengths, as was evident from electrophoretic and quantitative precipitin analyses.  the subunits were fractionated by chromatography on deae-cellulose in the presence of 7 m urea. the purification was followed by polyacrylamidegel electrophoresis.  after removal of the urea at high ionic strength, 2 of the fractions obtained showed reactions of only partial identity with native a-crystallin in immunodiffusion tests, but all other fractions showed complete identity.  the differences in the electrophoretic mobilities of the fractions in the presence of urea persisted after removal of the urea. all fractions had much higher sedimentation coefficients in the absence of urea than in its presence, although the values for urea-treated unfractionated a-crystallin obtained after removal of the urea were not reached even at high ionic strengths. the amino acid composition of the fractions was found to differ.  these observations suggest that a-crystallin is composed of a number of chemically different, but related, subunits of approximately the same size, which are bound together by nonspecific, noncovalent bonds, possibly hydrophobic bonds.  moreover, when isolated, these subunits have the ability to associate and form molecules of high molecular weight. 